hydration is very important for elite
athletes because several studies have
shown in many sports that if you lose 2%
of your body mass that's when you start
to feel fatigued you have trouble
focusing and performance can start to
drop off / here at our ranked guy
Buckingham arena where we train every
day and Gatorade Sports Science and
students come over to help test our
athletes test their hydration levels and
give us some feedback when we first
started testing hockey teams we found
that at least one-third of the players
we're letting themselves get too
dehydrated in practices and especially
during games so we're trying to give
some feedback to these young players to
see whether or not they're doing a good
job staying hydrated because if you stay
hydrated then the chance for optimal
performance is enhanced so what we try
to do is we meet with the players that
we explain to them that they will have
to give us a small urine sample from the
urine sample we can determine how
hydrated they were when they showed up
at the rink then we have them actually
weigh their body and from that time on
they drink only from the bottles that we
give them so we monitor how much they
drink when they're getting ready for the
training session and then we also
monitor how much they drink when they're
on the ice from that information then we
have a good feel for how much they're
drinking when the practice is over we
ask them to come back in to have another
body mass way we take the sweat patch
off that's on their forehead and we can
assess the their salt intake
so essentially you can assess how much
they sweat by knowing how much body mass
they lost and how much they drank during
the period
it affects players abilities to make
good decisions and I think being
hydrated and being hydrated with the
appropriate supplement and mix is really
critical for performance what the GSSI
is trying to do is to collect data on
elite athletes and also recreational
athletes about how much they sweat how
much energy they need and so forth and
therefore use that science or that
information
and make products that will help
athletes with their nutrition and their
hydration during the types of activities
they do